---
title: 'Artisanal Software'
date: '2021-06-24T07:44:05'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
Inspired by the story of [ Pinboard
](https://static.pinboard.in/xoxo_talk_thoreau.htm) , I'm once again
entertaining the idea of making a living off of my own artisanal software (or
hardware, or both).

  

Of course the first project that comes to mind is this very one, but [ another
article ](https://blog.dropbox.com/topics/work-culture/passion-economy-kevin-
kelly) I read recently has me considering something on the opposite end of the
spectrum.

  

[ Preposter.us ](https://github.com/jjg/preposter.us) , as a business feels a
lot like what I've come to learn about Pinboard. It was built to meet a very
personal need and to fill a void left by [ another product
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Posterous) that vaporized for reasons beyond
my control. Aside from needing some initial tuning-up, it's very low-
maintenance and doesn't require constant attention to keep it running (in
other words, it would be easy to run as a side hustle). While it's unclear as
to how big the audience for Preposter.us might be, I would have underestimated
the audience for Pinboard (based on the [ numbers published by its developer
](https://blog.pinboard.in/) ). Given that I'm not sure how worthwhile it
would be for me to estimate Preposter.us's potential customer base, but with a
reasonable subscription price it wouldn't need to be much more than a tiny
fraction of the users on Internet to comfortably support myself working on it
full-time.

  

_That's as far as I want to dive into "preposter.us as a business" in this
post (I'll save that for later if I decide to go any further than this)_

  

At the other end of the spectrum are idea for things that do not exist yet.
Some are new forms or combinations of existing ideas, others are things that
I've never heard of before. These don't fit so nicely into the one-programmer
company model (especially when that one programmer has to hold down a full-
time job until the new company takes off). On the other hand, as [ the article
](https://blog.dropbox.com/topics/work-culture/passion-economy-kevin-kelly)
states (and my own experience can attest to), it can be easier (and honestly
more fun) to do something new because you get to define what it is and you're
really only competing with yourself.

  

This is far from the first time I've thought about this (there are countless
examples of these ruminations on this very blog!), and I can't say
definitively why I've never went much further than thinking about it, so I
don't expect much more to happen this time either.

  

That said, something feels different this time. I'm not sure if it has
anything to do with the ideas themselves, or if simply the pursuit, the
possibility, is feeding a need that has been created by outside or indirect
forces.

  

  

\- Jason

