---
title: 'Autonomacon'
date: '2020-06-18T07:58:29'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
An reoccurring experiment in incrementally-expanding autonomous communities.

Autonomy is only possible by severing our ability to thrive and survive from
those who benefit from our suffering and subservience. The purpose of
Autonomacon is to provide a laboratory, workshop, studio and sandbox in which
to experiment with and develop the means and capacity to replace or eliminate
these dependencies.

These dependencies take many forms. They include (but not limited to)
obtaining the essentials of survival (food, water, shelter), receiving medical
care, social and psychological well-being, protection and recovery from
natural disasters, technology such as communications, transportation and
agriculture, arts and music, education and knowledge, news, sanitation,
entertainment, games and exercise, the list goes on...

Any and all of these are things we depend on which we currently obtain through
exploitative channels and therefore are subject to be pursued during
Autonomacon.

The first Autonomacon will be three days long. It will take place in a [
temporary autonomous zone ](https://hermetic.com/bey/taz_cont) . The only
resources available will be what participants bring with them and the natural
resources of the zone. When Autonomacon is complete, the zone will be returned
to its original state (save for any renewable resources which replenish
themselves naturally). Each time Autonomacon happens, another day will be
added to the experiment.

The number of participants in a single Autonomacon zone are limited to [ 150
people ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dunbar's_number) . If more want to
participate, additional zones will be added. Zones are encouraged to
communicate, collaborate and share resources during the event, but must avoid
becoming completely dependent on one-another as (this would defeat the purpose
of the experiment).

Any outcome is successful so long as it produces knowledge. Autonomacon's most
important goal is to discover, document and disseminate knowledge about
creating autonomous communities. Participants are expected to contribute their
experiences to the encyclopedia*, either directly, by allowing other
participants to document their participation in the event or both.Autonomacon
is [ Work In Progress ](https://github.com/jjg/Autonomacon) , and there are a
lot of problems to solve. I'm posting about it now because I want to do a
better job of sharing ideas and not stockpiling them until they are "perfect".
If this sounds interesting to you, [ please, email
](mailto:autonomacon@jasongullickson.com) .

