---
title: 'Classroom Air Purifier'
date: '2021-08-23T10:27:10'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
![](/assets/143-image1.jpeg)  

  

Over the last two Sunday afternoons I’ve been working on a little project
building air purifiers for some friends classrooms based on the design tested
in this paper:

  

[ https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34040337/
](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/34040337/)

  

The basic idea of using an HVAC filter attached to a box fan has been around
for a long time, but what got me interested in building one was the
simulations and results generated by this paper. The key take-always for me
were:

  

* Placement, orientation and speed matter 

* Additional filter media doesn’t matter 

* The device reduces exposure enough to make a difference 

  

![](/assets/143-image0.jpeg)  

  

I shared this paper and one of our friends who is an elementary teacher asked
where to get one of these purifiers. The paper refers to a cardboard frame
made by Ford, but Jamie brought-up a few additional parameters that need to be
considered for this application (the durability and safety of the cardboard
design are questionable in an elementary classroom setting).

  

![](/assets/143-image12.jpeg)  

  

I considered a number of materials to replace the cardboard but settled on a
simple wooden frame for a number of reasons. The wood frame is strong enough
without being heavy or bulky, it is inexpensive and it can be built with
readily-available tools. It’s also flexible in that differences in parts and
materials can be compensated for fairly easily (this was tested during the
prototyping phase). Finally the safety aspects of untreated pine are fairly
well-known and manageable.

  

The initial prototype was constructed entirely out of materials that could be
sourced locally for the purpose of speed. This meant deviating from the
initial sketch as a 20x20x4 MERV-13 filter could not be found so a 20x25x4
filter was used instead.

  

![](/assets/143-image2.jpeg)  

  

After the filter, the fan is the most expensive component of the purifier.
Almost any 20” box fan will work, and I considered looking for used fans to
keep the cost down, but I was able to find a suitable new fan for less than
$15. Not only was this fan inexpensive, it turned out to have a number of
advantages.

  

The fan is almost entirely made out of plastic. Not only is this lighter than
the steel-cased fans I was expecting but it also makes it very easy to attach
the frame using the same fasteners used to construct the frame itself.

  

The controls for the fan are located on the face (as opposed to the edge).
During operation, the speed control is obscured by the filter element
preventing it from being changed (the speed is simply set to “high” and the
knob removed).

  

![](/assets/143-image3.jpeg)  

  

Finally, this fan has “retractable” stabilizing feed which when deployed serve
to provide a back-stop for the filter element. They could alternatively be
used as a locking mechanism for the filter (by adding an additional frame
member) but during testing friction appeared sufficient to keep the filter in
place and I left this out to reduce part count.

  

The last part of the purifier is the frame itself. It’s constructed out of 1x2
pine board (.75”x1.75” actual) and 1.25” construction screws. The frame
consists of 8 pieces of board cut to the following lengths:

  

* 4 16” 

* 2 15” 

* 2 22” 

  

![](/assets/143-image4.jpeg)  

  

This can be found at most home improvement stores or lumberyards. Two six foot
lengths should be sufficient (one eight foot board is just a little too short)
and cost should be around $5.

  

I don’t have a detailed drawing of how the frame goes together yet (it has
been changing) but you can get the basic idea from the photos. All screw holes
should be pilot-drilled and counter-sunk.

  

![](/assets/143-image10.jpeg)  

  

  

The frame is attached to the fan using 4 of the 1.25” screws. The holes in the
frame should be drilled before the fan is in position. The exact location of
where the frame is attached to the fan is a matter of fitment (as the filter
is held in place by friction).

  

![](/assets/143-image9.jpeg)  

  

How I did this was by setting fan face-up, the placing the filter on the fan
and finally setting the frame rails on top of the filter. Make sure everything
is aligned (f  lip the feet down if your fan has them to help line things up)
and then (carefully!) drive four 1.25” screws through the pre-drilled holes in
the frame and into the plastic body of the fan. As the screws are going into
plastic, the holes can get stripped very easily so this requires a gentle
touch.

  

![](/assets/143-image11.jpeg)  

  

  

**Design changes**

  

It was immediately clear that the original frame needed additional support for
the filter. This became doubly-obvious when a replacement 20x20x4 filter was
obtained. The new filter, it differed not only in length, but in other
dimensions as well and could not be held reliably by the frame rails.

  

![](/assets/143-image6.jpeg)  

  

Here the choice of materials was validated. Two additional frame components
were added to allow any filter at least 16” in length to be held securely by
the frame. The difference in the thickness of the filter was compensated for
by adjusting the mounting points of the frame to the fan.

  

![](/assets/143-image13.jpeg)  

  

This second iteration of the purifier is sturdy, compact and easy to maintain.

  

![](/assets/143-image14.jpeg)  

  

When I have a little more time I’ll draw-up some plans with measurements, but
bear in mind that if you build one of these you may need to compensate for
differences in the fan and filter size. I was surprised at how much the actual
dimensions of the filter differed from their description (even filters from
different vendors with the same advertised size).

  

![](/assets/143-image15.jpeg)  

  

Getting a good fit will likely require some tweaking. I considered adding some
adjustment to the design for this reason, but I hesitate because it will come
at the cost of simplicity and increase the parts cost.

  

  

