---
title: 'Creality Ender 5 Plus'
date: '2021-03-02T21:57:39'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
﻿

﻿

﻿

![](/assets/119-image5.jpeg)  

  

I’ve wanted a large-format printer for a long time, but couldn’t bring myself
to “just buy something”, insisting that I should build instead. This went on
for years, and when I realized how much time I’m spending working-around the
limitations of my current printers I decided maybe it’s time to see what’s out
there.

  

I settled on the [ Creality Ender 5 Plus ](https://www.creality.com/goods-
detail/ender-5-plus-3d-printer) . The key factors in selecting this machine
were the cavernous build capacity, cube frame (bed moves only along the Z
axis) and the ability to customize the firmware, etc.

  

![](/assets/119-image4.jpeg)  

  

Assembly was fairly simple and completed in about an hour. I watched [ a video
](https://youtu.be/-kKXXKGQzCo) which I think helped avoid some potential
mistakes but nothing that would have been irreversible.

  

![](/assets/119-image1.jpeg)  

  

This is one of the things I like most about the machine, the construction is
very solid and doesn’t use any “one-time” fasteners. I feel like it will be
possible to service this machine much easier than the other off-the-shelf
printer I’ve owned.

  

![](/assets/119-image0.jpeg)  

  

Once assembled, calibration was fairly straightforward with a couple of
exceptions, both involving what I consider “convenience features”.

  

The first was an issue with the probe used for the “autoleveling” feature.
This feature probes the bed in 16 places to compensate for small differences
in the height of the bed. The problem is that the probe can overshoot the bed
at the lower limit of the X axis. This is easily corrected by sliding the
glass bed a mm or two to the left, but a better solution would be to modify
the calibration routine to test slightly more inbound of the X axis.

  

The second problem came from the filament sensor. This detects when the
machine runs out of filament and pauses the print job until the supply is
replenished. The problem I ran into was in feeding the filament through the
sensor.

  

![](/assets/119-image2.jpeg)  

  

When I fed the filament into the sensor I couldn’t get it to come out the
other side. After several attempts at removing and retrying the process the
filament jammed inside the sensor and I had to take it apart.

  

Inside the sensor is simply a micro switch with a roller lever. This works
fine, but there’s nothing to guide the filament from the entry hole to the
exit hole, so if the filament isn’t perfectly straight (coming off a spool it
rarely is) the filament can curl inside the sensor and eventually get stuck.

  

My current solution to this is to ensure I insert the filament so that any
curve faces away from the sensor (which is the opposite of how the filament
curves coming off the spool) but I’m going to give some thought to how this
could be improved in a less error-prone fashion.

  

With these issues resolved I was able to get one of the gcode files from the
included MicroSD card to print.

  

![](/assets/119-image3.jpeg)  

  

The next step is to print something of my own design. This was a more
complicated process which I’m still working the kinks out of. That being the
case I’m going to save that topic for a future post once I’ve got it all
figured out.

  

  

  

