---
title: 'Cultivating naivete'
date: '2021-06-25T07:40:54'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
﻿

Remember when I decided to become a professional filmmaker?

  

What year was it… [ 2005
](https://m.imdb.com/title/tt0486252/?ref_=m_nm_knf_t2) ? Out of some
coincidence I picked up the book “From Reel to Deal” and after finishing it (I
almost never finish books that fast) I decided that I would become a
professional filmmaker before I turned 40 (I was 31 at the time).

  

…and I did it! In 2011 we released American Cafe, which made-back its budget
many times over and also made me a professional filmmaker (i.e., I was getting
paid for it).

  

It might not seem like it today, but in 2005 it was a pretty radical idea to
think you could produce and distribute a successful feature-length film with a
budget of about $1000.00. Remember this was a time when Netflix mailed dvds
and YouTube didn’t exist. Broadcast-quality digital video was just becoming
accessible to the consumer market and HD was still years away.

  

The reason I’m reflecting on this today is that by contrast, starting a
successful [ artisanal software ](https://jasongullickson.com/artisanal-
software.html) company seems downright easy by comparison. Not only in terms
of the work, but also in terms of the mystery, or the unknowns.

  

I know a lot more about making software now than I did about making movies
then. I don’t consider my business knowledge to be substantial but I know more
about the SaaS business than I did about the entertainment business back in
2005. “Going pro” at running a SaaS should be much easier for me now than
becoming a professional filmmaker was back then, so what is holding me back?

  

It may be that very thing: _my problem may be that I know what I’m doing._

  

After American Cafe we went on to produce a more ambitious motorcycle film:
The Bonneville Project. We took everything we learned on AC (and numerous
other projects leading up to AC) and as well as a steady revenue stream to
provide a budget and produced another successful film, but we have done very
little since.

  

I’ve analyzed this repeatedly and discussed it with our director and no matter
how many great ideas we have for new projects, we never seem to get very far
with them. We could use the typical excuses (not enough time, not enough
money, etc.) but none of those things stopped us before.

  

I think what is holding us back (or at least me) is a much more complete
understanding of what it takes to make a movie, and what it would take to make
a better one. In 2005 I was extremely naive to the fact that what I was
setting out to do was virtually impossible, so there was no reason to doubt I
could do it.

  

Now I know better, and ironically it’s stopping me from doing something I’ve
already don’t because now I know how to do it.

  

I think the same thing may be afoot when it comes to my technology work. I
have worked professionally in this field for over 20 years, I’ve seen a lot of
success and a lot of failure. I know that skill and talent are no match for
bad luck, and that you’ll never really know who your audience is before they
find you.

  

Being dumb has the advantage of not needing to be brave. When people ask me
why I’m not intimidated by ambitious projects, I would joke that “I have a
carefully cultivated sense of naïveté “. I’m starting to thing that isn’t just
an unhelpful, smart-ass response but perhaps something I need to take more
seriously.

  

  

\- Jason

