---
title: 'Desktop-First Mobile Computing'
date: '2019-12-13T22:26:02'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
I was thinking today about how I have this expensive laptop for work, and in
order to create an ideal working environment I connect it to an external
display, keyboard, trackball, etc. I do this at work, and I do this at home (I
regularly work remote). I do this so much that I spend very little time using
the built-in screen and keyboard.

  

This got me thinking about why I even have a laptop at all? Why not have a
desktop that’s always connected to a good set of peripherals? It would be a
better value, and I wouldn’t need to haul the machine and it’s various
accessories around.

  

There are some advantages to having a single computer vs. one at each
location. It’s less hardware to maintain, and it’s easier to pick up exactly
where you left off when you’re using the same computer. It’s also convenient
to have the computer with you in a pinch where you need to do some work even
if it means forgoing the comfort of your regular setup.

  

This got me thinking about how most of these advantages come from simply
transporting the core of the computer, the storage, the processor and the
necessary memory. The input/output devices are always worse than the non-
mobile equivalent, and at the same time are the components that contribute the
most to making the device delicate and expensive.

  

So, what if instead of all this you could carry a device that contains only
the core components of the computer with only a minimal amount of input/output
peripherals. If you’re starting to think what I’m talking about sounds like a
smartphone, you’d be right.

  

But phones are phones and while you can connect most of them to keyboards (and
some of them to displays), there’s few that you could use in place of a
laptop, and fewer (if any?) that you could use as a desktop computer. This has
less to do with hardware and more to do with software.

  

The most common smartphones run Apple’s iOS or Google’s Android operating
systems and these systems are designed to work in a way that has no
resemblance to desktop computers. Beyond their user interface it is their
application interface, the way software is written, used, distributed and
maintained that is the biggest barrier to using smartphone hardware as a
replacement for desktop computers. There’s little users or programmers can do
about this because these limitations are enforced by the vendors of these
devices and while there are work-arounds, they create so much drag on both
users and developers that few can afford to deviate from the application
patterns prescribed by the vendors.

  

For a long time this was the end of the line for this sort of thinking. A
handful of attempts have been made to implement devices described above but as
far as I know none survived for long of they made it to the market at all. The
only reason I can see for this is that their sustainability depended on a
level of adoption that the market did no bear.

  

However the introduction of the **PinePhone** ( [
https://www.pine64.org/pinephone/ ](https://www.pine64.org/pinephone/) ) may
change all that.

  

The PinePhone is an open-source computer in a smartphone form factor. The
hardware provides all of the resources necessary to support a workflow like
the one described above. More importantly, unlike other smartphones, the
device is open enough to accept a standard desktop operating system, so using
it I’m the way I use my laptop (connecting it to desktop peripherals and
treating it like a desktop computer) is completely feasible.

  

Additionally the PinePhone contains a touchscreen display that could be used
in a pinch between stationary setups just like a laptop. In this mode it is
significantly more compromised from an interface perspective, but the trade-
off in terms of portability and reduced cost is substantial. Additionally it’s
easy to imagine a compromise in the form of a laptop-style accessory that
could provide a better interface than the touchscreen while away from a desk,
if this was necessary.

  

So instead of looking at the PinePhone as a phone, the idea is to look at it
as a general-purpose computer, designed to be connected to desktop-style
peripherals under normal conditions, but with the ability to be used like a
mobile device when in-between desks. Using this “desktop-first”, philosophy
uncompromising applications can be developed for the device that provide full-
functionality under normal conditions and reduced, essential functionality
when necessary “on the road”. Under all conditions the user benefits from
having a familiar work environment where they can seamlessly suspend and
resume work without depending on external third-party services or even network
connectivity.

  

The more I think about it the more problems a device like this can solve. This
might be the basis for a new form of computing that, like other revolutionary
technologies looks like a small change form the status quo but turns out to be
a new direction as subsequent iterations evolve.

