---
title: "Electric Cafe"
date: "1990-01-01"
---

<div class="content">
<p>This is a summary of an idea I’ve had for awhile that was rekindled when
talking with my friend Mike who owns a Nissan Leaf.</p>
<p>A chain of restaurants that are primarily located in rural towns, serving
“slow food” made with locally-grown ingredients.  Each franchise is located
within 100 miles of a major metropolitan area, or another Electric Cafe
location.</p>
<p>Each location features EV charging stations at every parking lot stall,
allowing EV drivers to recharge their vehicles for free while they enjoy a
well-made, wholesome meal.</p>
<p>Each location features local produce and other ingredients, so the menu varies
but also contains a number of “staples” so that the fare is varied enough for
the adventurous but does not alienate those who desire predictability while on
the road.  In addition to meals other amenities such as coffee and Internet
access are provided to encourage customers to “hang out” and relax while their
vehicle is charged.</p>
<p>Proximity to metro areas (and at the intersection of metro-to-metro routes)
ensures a supply of city-dwelling EV owners (where charging stations are more
plentiful) that can be drawn safely out of the city because ample and fast
charging is available.  Proximity to other Electric Cafes allows EV owners to
travel cross-country from location to location allowing daily travel ranges
otherwise not possible (expansion to provide overnight lodging could be an
additional vector for growth that could allow EV’s to be used for truly long
trips).</p>
<p>By concentrating EV owners in a relaxed atmosphere and encouraging them to
“hang out” while their vehicles charge, Electric Cafe enjoys a strong “network
effect” and encourages word-of-mouth advertising.  Since customers are drawn
from disparate areas this word-of-mouth can travel from city to city easily,
and the uniqueness of the cafe will also attract non-EV owners to visit and
interact with EV culture.</p>
<p>In addition to marginally increasing employment via staff, management, etc.,
rural towns benefit from the additional traffic generated by visitors, but
more importantly these are truly new visitors who would otherwise be unlikely
to visit due to “range anxiety”.  Additionally, these towns are uniquely
qualified to support the dining style of the Cafe, and the regional diversity
encourages visitors to explore multiple locations.</p>
<p>There are electrical grid considerations when deploying a Cafe capable of peak
electrical draws described here, however many rural towns were once home to
large industrial manufacturing concerns and therefore retain the electrical
infrastructure capable of supporting these large electrical capacities.
Moreover, previously offline electrical generation sources as well as new
renewable sources (wind, solar, etc.) are more deployable and less expensive
to operate in rural areas.</p>
<p>Finally, the franchise model allows for the initial R&amp;D and engineering costs
associated with designing and tuning the model to be amortized through sharing
with each new location.  Furthermore, other aspects of operating the Cafe
(collaboration with utility companies, charging equipment providers and EV
manufacturers) may be easier to negotiate as a group vs. a single
entity/location.</p>
<p>I’ll be investigating what it would take to “bootstrap” such a business in my
own small town.  If you’re interested in discussing this project feel free to
contact me via twitter <strong>@jasonbot2000</strong> .</p>
<p>- Jason</p>
</div>
