---
title: 'Going back to Github'
date: '2020-04-25T01:17:07'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
Years ago I decided I was going to stop using Github to host my code. I would
continue to use Github _professionally_ , but when I had a choice, I would
choose something else and I migrated all of my repositories to gitlab.com.

  

I left Github for a number of reasons. The first was due to sexual misconduct
by the original owners. This was enough for me to want out, and while I was
working on leaving Microsoft purchased Github and that clinched it.  

  

Since then I’ve tried a number of other alternatives, including simply hosting
git repositories on my own servers, over ssh, with no web interface, etc.

  

As a result, my personal codebase has become fragmented across several systems
and I no longer have a single source where I can easily work with the most
current version of my code. The reason for this is that I’ve had to balance
taking time to solve problems that come-up on each platform with the need to
simply get things done. Some of the problems I’ve had have been unsolvable in
the time I have available to troubleshoot them so I’ve simply had to abandon
one server for another. Given that I don’t have time to fix things, I really
don’t have time to go back and clean everything up, so there’s stuff all over
the place.

  

Another struggle I’ve had since leaving Github is collaboration. Unfortunately
for the vast majority of programmers Github has become synonymous with git,
and the idea of using the inherently distributed nature of git is completely
foreign to them. So I end up maintaining a Github account to collaborate on
other programmers projects. Another problem is that some programmers don’t
have access to the systems I’ve hosted my repositories on. Overzealous
corporate firewalls have even blocked prospective employers from accessing
code exercises I’ve completed for interviews.

  

None of this makes me like Github or its owners any more than I did the day I
left, so what changed?

  

I’m trying to take some good advice from a smart advisor about avoiding [
Compassion Fatigue ](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compassion_fatigue) .
This is something I’ve been struggling with for reasons that are obvious to
anyone living in America for the last four years. The advice is simple: focus
on helping with one or two things you care deeply about and have some power to
change. As I make this list for myself, it’s hard to justify the effort I put
into avoiding Github, especially given that it’s impossible to avoid it
completely.

  

Perhaps more significant is the fact that everything I’ve done to stop using
Github myself has little effect on others, so for all my contortions I’m not
even helping anyone else. This is perhaps the most damning effect of them all.

  

So I’m going to let go of my crusade against Github, and I’m going to move my
repositories back as well. I’m still going to maintain replicas should there
be any problems that require me to make a hasty exit, but Github will become
the primary system of record for my code, and the place where I collaborate
with others.

  

Even after writing all this I still feel uncomfortable about going back, but I
need to make some compromises like this if I’m going to have any capacity for
the causes that are most important to me, and where I have the most leverage
to effect positive change. To some degree reducing the friction on
collaboration will also accelerate work toward these other goals, so this
compromise pays double dividends.

  

I expect the process to be slow. I want to take the time to properly curate
the code as I move it back, and where possible preserve the history of each
repository that originally existed on Github. I don’t know the best way to do
this exactly, so there will will take some time. When the work is complete
I’ll post a follow-up describing anything interesting about the process and
anything of interest I encounter along the way.

  

Hopefully afterwards I’ll have a chance to hack on some code with the rest of
you again.

  

  

\- Jason

