---
title: 'Hashtag Journal'
date: '2020-01-28T05:24:50'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
I’ve been struggling with finding a way to keep a journal of all my projects
since I gave-up Evernote. My latest experiment, “ [ Jed
](https://git.hackers.town/requiem/jed) ” has been fun to write and use but
due to some flakiness of the Pinebook Pro USB ports, I’ve lost a lot of data
using it.

  

This morning I was thinking about another project and remembered that I could
look-up some of the obscure details about one of the components on this blog,
because I made a post about it while I was working on it*. It then occurred to
me that maybe [ Preposter.us ](https://codeberg.org/jjg/preposter.us) could be
my journal?

  

It meets a lot of the criteria. It’s pervasive in that I can access it from
anything that has an email client (including a web browser), it’s durable,
it’s convenient (all you do is open an email and start typing), so why not?

  

I guess the main downside is that it’s not private, and believe it or not,
there are a few notes I don’t share immediately. So for these things, I’ll
have to use something else.

  

Another downside is that journal entries tend to be pretty raw. I don’t like
to interrupt the work at hand thinking about what I’m writing and as a result
they are a little less polished than a typical post here. OTOH I’ve been
trying to post more, and part of what’s held me back is feeling like posts I
write need more work. So maybe this would be a way to solve both the
documentation and the publishing problem in one stroke?

  

Finally I’d like a way to view journal entries chronologically without other
posts interspersed between them. It would also probably be nice to filter-out
the less-refined journal entries when browsing the blog for more finished
work. One solution for this would be to implement a [ tagging
](https://codeberg.org/jjg/preposter.us/issues/28) feature in Preposter.us.
This is something I’ve wanted to do for a long time anyway, and if not having
it is actively causing me a headache, I’m more likely to get around to writing
it.

  

So I’m going to give this a try. I’ll tag these posts with a journal “hashtag”
and when I get around to writing support for tags into Preposter.us, there
will be a way to click the tag and see all entries in the journal. I should
also find a way to finally implement search, because I _know_ I’m going to
want to search journal entries for obscure terms and commands I used that I no
longer remember.

  

  

_* after writing this I went looking for this post to link to it and realized
that it was one of the posts I never published because I didn’t think it was
“finished” enough. Message received!_

  

  

#journal

