---
title: 'Here I go again'
date: '2021-07-25T10:43:22'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
It's becoming clear that the only way forward for me professionally is to
strike-out on my own.

The most obvious choice in this direction is consulting, and I've tried
easing-into that a few times but it's never really worked out. I don't have
the option to make a switch from a full-time employer to working as an
independent consultant, and when I've tried to make the move gradually
(picking up consulting hours in addition to my full-time job) the work
suffers. I'm not sure what makes this different from my personal projects, but
when I try to do work for others in addition to working full-time, I'm not at
my best.

So I think the right choice is to start something of my own. I've written
about this in the past, the idea of taking one of my projects and developing
it as a product that could at least theoretically grow to the point where it
could replace my full-time work for others. The last time I wrote about this I
was excited by the story of [ Pinboard
](https://jasongullickson.com/artisanal-software.html) and how it's creator
has been able to make a living as the sole member of the company. The project
of mine with the most potential for this appeared to be [ Preposer.us
](https://preposter.us/) .

Since then I've been thinking about various scenarios for making a living
working on Preposter.us, and it occurred to me that I've been thinking about
it's applications too narrowly. I think of Preposer.us as a blogging platform
(really just blogging _software_ ; why does everything have to be a
**platform** ?), but with the functionality I've added over the years it turns
out to be a nice little media publishing system.

With the addition of podcast support, Preposter.us became (as far as I know)
the worlds easiest way to publish a podcast, and it has been able to publish
other media (audio, video, images, etc.) almost since the beginning. When I
look at Preposter.us this way, it's easy to see how with some improvements it
might be the simplest way to publish anything with the least amount of
technological resistance and from any device capable of sending an email.

So now imagine a Preposter.us that uses the same email-based publishing
mechanism, and provides the same simple blogging features as before, but
provides better presentation for other media (for example, it's easy to
imagine providing a nice grid-based layout when an email containing nothing
but images is received). In addition to publishing these things on a nicely
formatted web page, it's also published as a podcast automatically.

Since rss/podcast feeds are automatically generated for both each individual
user as well as an aggregate for the entire site, authors work is cross-
promoted via this global podcast. Taking this a step further, additional feeds
could be split-out for audio podcasts, video podcasts or sub-category (tag-
based feeds, etc.). Clients could even be created to consume these feeds (for
example, a Roku channel where you can watch the global feed like a television
channel).

All of this is possible while not only maintaining the simplicity of
Preposter.us's implementation and scalability. Not to get carried away, but
one could imagine how such a system might provide an alternative for
authors/artists/photographers/filmmakers/etc. who are not well served by
existing options; people who want as little resistance as possible in
publishing their work, and who would benefit from having their work shared
alongside other creators without the interference of "platforms", monetization
systems, etc.

I have a lot more thoughts on this but I'm going to need more time to get them
organized. There's a fair amount of work to do, but I think it's granular
enough for me to manage alongside my dayjob, and the motivation as both a
producer and a consumer should be strong enough to keep me going.

