---
title: 'How I use my $25 radio as a police scanner'
date: '2020-08-10T19:38:32'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
Tired of all the right-wing nonsense that surrounds so-called “scanner” posts
on social media I wanted to see if I could get the straight dope directly from
the radio waves like a, you know, scanner.

  

A few years ago I bought this BaoFeng UV-5R radio for around $25 with the
intention of using it to experiment with transmitting and receiving data, but
I found out I needed a license and then kind of forgot about it until now.
With a little poking-around online I was able to use it as a scanner, and
while it’s not exactly rocket science, there were a few things that tripped me
up, so I thought I’d write a post to make life easier for anyone else who
might want to do this.

  

First, look-up what frequencies are used in your area on this website:

  

[ https://www.radioreference.com/apps/db/?coid=1
](https://www.radioreference.com/apps/db/?coid=1)  

  

I used the zip code lookup and got a whole page of interesting things to
listen to. If you can’t find what you’re looking for here, you can stop
reading now.

  

Turn the radio on and turn the volume up to at least 25%. This is important
because the radio will speak to you to tell you important things like what
mode it is in. If you don’t do this, you will have to screw-around figuring
out how to discern this from the state of the display.

  

Press the VFO/MR button until the radio is in “Frequency Mode”; you can tell
this because the radio will say “Frequency Mode”, or if you like to do it the
hard way, the display will look like this:

  

  

![](/assets/83-image0.jpeg)  

  

Press the “A/B” button so that the little up-arrow on the left is next to the
top number (as shown above) and then type the first frequency you want to scan
using the numeric keypad.

  

You might hear something, or you might not, depending on whether someone is
broadcasting. Either way the next step is to assign the frequency to a
“channel”, like so:

  

Press “MENU”, then press the down-arrow on the keypad until the message “MEM-
CH” is displayed. Press MENU to select this function, then use the up arrow to
find a channel that is unused (you can tell because the CH- will go away).
Press “MENU” again to assign this frequency to the channel.

  

  

![](/assets/83-image1.jpeg)  

  

Now just repeat this process over and over again until you have all the
frequencies you want to scan assigned to channels.

  

Once you’ve done that, press “VFO/MR” until you’re in “Channel Mode” and then
press “MENU” until “SC-REV” is displayed. Press “MENU”, then the down arrow
until CO is selected, then press “MENU” again. This means that the radio will
hold the channel if someone is broadcasting on it, and then return to scanning
when the signal goes away.

  

![](/assets/83-image2.jpeg)  

  

Finally the fun part! Press and hold the * button until the radio starts
scanning. This part threw me because you have to hold the button to get the
scan started (everything I read said to press the button, which does something
but it’s not going to make the radio scan).

  

![](/assets/83-image3.jpeg)  

  

Now you have a police scanner!

  

There are easier ways to do this (buy a programming cable and use the
software), and of course it doesn’t work as well as a specialized scanner
radio, but it’s a handy application for a cheap piece of hardware that has
plenty of other uses.

  

