---
title: 'How to kill Amazon'
date: '2021-03-29T23:39:54'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
**Note** : This post describes _how_ I would kill Amazon.com but not _why_ .
For information about the _why_ , [ start here
](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=why+stop+using+amazon&t=fpas&ia=web) .

  

**The Story**

  

You create a website where vendors can add their products to a shared catalog.
Customers shop by searching this catalog. Purchases are handled by the website
and orders are fulfilled by the vendors. Vendors are paid by the website based
on the purchases the vendors fulfill minus a percentage to support the
operation of the website.

  

The website categorizes the contents of the catalog to allow products to be
sourced by multiple vendors. The vendor with the closest physical proximity to
the customer is selected to fulfill the purchase. This allows the customer to
receive the product as quickly as possible while supporting the customer’s
local businesses as well.

  

Over time, the website can identify needs which can be used to attract
additional vendors to the system. These include a) products that are searched
for but are not available from current vendors and b) products that are
regularly purchased but not available from vendors local to customers. This
data is then used to “recruit” existing vendors to join the system to meet
these needs or to encourage entrepreneurs to start new businesses to satisfy
these demands.

  

This process is automatic, and the data is generated as a side-effect of
regular customer interaction with the website. The result is a means of
expanding the value of the system to both vendors and customers without one
exploring the other, and without rewarding unhealthy growth or competition.

  

The beauty of this design is that it doesn’t have to start big to be
successful. It could start with a single site focused on vendors in a single
small town. Local customers can be recruited to use the site as a way to
discover and buy from local businesses. As the system uses these initial
interactions to identify unmet needs, additional vendors can be recruited to
meet these needs as described above. This results in a self-perpetuating cycle
of attracting new vendors and customers into the system. As the customer base
expands geographically, the need for vendors local to these new customers will
be identified by the system and recruited to meet the needs of local customers
ad infinitum.

  

The technical challenges of implementing such a system are trivial (at least
to me) compared to the social challenges. What this approach requires is one
community committed to cultivating an initial local marketplace and especially
vendors who are excited enough about participating that they are willing to
endure the inevitable growing pains of getting things off the ground. However,
if such a “critical mass” of participants can be found, the rewards could be
significant. I believe this is one way to unseat Amazon as the primary way
people shop online, and revive the once thriving relationship between local
customers and businesses without throwing away the continence, safety and
efficiency we have all come to enjoy from online retail.

