---
title: 'Modern Computers Cant Be Trusted'
date: '2021-09-07T12:57:04'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
Over the course of last week I watched the last few things I depend on my
phone to remember rot away.

First it was my Calendar, which disappeared silently. I didn't know it was
gone until I missed an appointment and when I went to see if I had set an
alarm, the entire contents of the calendar were gone.

Next it was my Reminders. These were where I expected them in the morning and
came-and-went throughout the day. By the following morning, they were gone.

Finally it was my Notes. Those literally vaporized before my eyes.

I'm waiting for the Contacts to go away next. I've had this happen before in
the past, but this time I had the forethought to back them up. Of course the
iPhone provides no facility for backing this up, so I had to download a third
party application and grant it access to my entire Contact list.

Some will rationalize this or make excuses, but the fact is that there was
data I recorded on my phone, and then there wasn't. This wasn't caused by me
telling the phone to delete it, nor was it due to some bug or error. My data
was deleted from my phone in a way that was somehow _by design_ .

This data was on my phone, and it was also in "the cloud". The phone is
backed-up as well. None of this prevented me from loosing this data, and I
have no reason to believe that it won't happen again. One of the first
principles of good software design is to respect the user's data. Failing to
do this is tantamount to a doctor breaking their [ Hippocratic Oath
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hippocratic_Oath) . For a company with the
resources of Apple to do this is completely unacceptable, but it has become
the norm of the industry and isn't likely to change anytime soon.

Old computers didn't do this. They may have lost data due to limitations of
the technology they were built from, or from bugs or other errors that were
unintentional, but my [ VIC-20 ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vic-20) never
deleted files off of a cassette tape without me explicitly telling it to, and
the contact list that I started on my [ Newton
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Newton) was safely carried through
several old computers (another Newton, a [ Palm Zire
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Palm_Zire) , even [ Windows devices
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ipaq) ) before being destroyed by an iPhone.

  

