---
title: 'Now for something plain'
date: '2020-03-03T15:30:36'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
I recently came across http://useplaintext.email and it really sold me on the
idea of avoiding HTML email in favor of plain text. I've favored HTML for the
basic features and convenience of it, and I knew it could be exploited, but I
never gave it enough thought to understand just how unnecessarily nasty it is.
So I'm switching my personal correspondence to plaintext-first, and that
includes making this website perform well when supplied with plaintext email
as input. I never deliberately broke this, and maybe it will work just fine
as-is (this post is in fact a test of this as I'm writing it in ALPINE and
will be sending it to Preposter.us in plaintext format), but if not I'm going
to put some effort into making it treat plaintext as a first-class means of
publishing on Preposter.us. That doesn't mean I'll be dropping support for
HTML messages. Preposter.us is unusual in that there are very practical
reasons for sending it formatted mail, and many of the downsides of HTML mail
don't come in to play when it's a robot on the receiving end. So I don't plan
to make any changes that will reduce the current level of quality with which
Preposter.us handles HTML email. But I really want to make it do plaintext
well, and in fact try to preserve as much of the featureset (things like
photos, podcasts, etc.) when the source message is not HTML. In many ways it
would be much easier to make Preposter.us work more reliably with nothing but
plaintext as input, but doing so would make it harder for some people to use
it and the whole point of Preposter.us is accessibility. Now it's time to hit
send and see how this works out... \- Jason

