---
title: 'Parametric Personal Computers'
date: '2021-02-25T19:56:26'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
﻿

﻿  I’ve had this idea for a few years, I may have even written about it
before.

  

I started designing [ a printable, solar-powered computer
](https://github.com/jjg/offgrid) a long time ago. It was modular by nature
because I wanted to be able to customize it as new tech came along.

  

![](/assets/112-image0.png)  

  

At some point I had the idea to make the whole thing parametric and automate
generation of the parts based on different component selections. For example,
change the SBC from a [ Raspberry Pi
](https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi-4-model-b/) to a [
Parallella ](https://www.parallella.org/) and the printable parts change to
fit the new selection. You press “print” and drop in the new board.

  

As I noodled on this I had the idea of turning the process into a web shop
where you could point and click various parts and have the site churn-out a
new machine. In addition to the printable parts it could produce a list of
other parts (boards, lcd’s etc.). From there the printables could be printed
and the other parts purchased directly, or even the printable parts could be
purchased from a printing service in whatever material is desired. For those
who don’t want to assemble their machines the parts could be delivered to
hackers who are willing to provide assembly as a service.

  

I didn’t take the idea too far because I really didn’t believe that there was
anyone else out there who might find it as exciting as I did. However in the
last year I’ve seen a sharp rise in interest in “ [ cyberdecks
](https://www.engadget.com/ready-model-100-235938452.html) ” which have a lot
in common with the various incarnations of parametric computers that I had
been designing, and that could be generated by such a system. Based on this,
I’m wondering if the time has come to revisit this idea?

  

  

  

