---
title: 'Preposter.us 2, what it is and what it isnt'
date: '2019-10-07T08:59:41'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
When I started Preposter.us in 2013 I had a singular goal: to build a
replacement for my favorite blogging software, [ Posterous
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Posterous) . To this end I think the project
was largely successful; within a few days I had an operational website, and
within a few months the system was mature enough that I invited others to
participate.

But after a year I grew weary of wrestling with the idiosyncrasies of parsing
emails and, along with a mounting backlog of unimplemented requests I didn't
have the time or gumption to push the project through to the next version. I
moved-on to an off-the-shelf blog and Preposter.us went to sleep.

It's been half a decade since then, and having spent that time using several
blogging tools I've found my writing productivity dropping-off to a trickle.
The most recent attempt to streamline this was moving to [ Hugo
](https://gohugo.io/) , creating posts in Markdown and managing my content
through Git. This seemed like a natural fit as I spent a _lot_ of time using [
Markdown ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown) and [ Git
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Git) , what I've found is that working with a
git repository of this size is unwieldy, resulting in a lot of overhead that
prevents me from writing unless I have a lot of time and energy to dedicate to
the task.

Contrast this to writing with Preposter.us: I compose the post on anything
that can accept text, and I can post it from anything with an email client. I
can post any kind of media (text/photo/audio/video) with rich text formatting
and the post goes live within a minute of having an Internet connection. All
this with almost zero server maintenance, and the meagerest of server
resources.

So why did I ever switch in the first place?

I think the primary reason is that I felt overwhelmed to make Preposter.us
"more". Template customization, comments and a number of other expected
features weighed heavily on me because implementing them threatened the
simplicity and elegance of Preposter.us's email-based user interface. There
were also bugs, and at the time I felt like I had to chose between writing and
bug fighting, and eventually I felt like the writing, the purpose of the
endeavor in the first place, was suffering. I made a decision that I wanted to
spend my time writing English instead of Python, and used this to rationalize
switching to an off-the-shelf solution. This seemed logical at the time but as
the last few years have shown, the algebra wasn't quite so straightforward.

So now I'm revisiting Preposter.us. I'm already feeling a weight lifted off of
my writing and the system is _far_ from what I'd consider "production ready".
But with only a couple hours I was able to get the code operational again and
bring [ https://preposter.us ](https://preposter.us/) back on-line.

Of course the old bugs are still there, and it's going to take a lot of work
to shake them all out. But I've learned a lot about Python in the years since
I last looked at this code, and this time I'm going to do more to get some
help as well. I'm also reeling-back on features to allow more time for polish,
and I'm on the hunt for [ 1000 true fans
](https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans/) who are looking for the same
thing in a blog that I am.

Preposter.us 2: press send, receive post

  

\- Jason

