---
title: 'Project Update August 2020'
date: '2020-08-20T23:36:57'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
**Explore**

I’ve been working on the [ pprocedural universe creation
](https://github.com/jjg/explore/blob/main/bb2.py) aspect of my space
exploration game and it’s been a fun change-of-pace from the gameplay
programming. It’s fun to have a toy project that is just complex enough that I
can switch gears when I start to get worn-out on one aspect and then switch-
back when my interest or curiosity is revived.

  

![](/assets/86-image0.jpeg)  

  

I’ve also been using the project to expand my Python skills and although it’s
not there yet, I’m working on structuring the project so that it can be a
properly-installable Python program when it’s complete enough to be playable
by others.

  

I’m also considering “porting” it to the [ RC2014
](https://jasongullickson.com/blog/rc2014-first-steps.html) as a BASIC version
once I get all of the experimentation out of the way (and I come up with a
reliable way to save and load BASIC programs on my RC2014).

  

**Preposter.us 3**

Over the years I’ve made a couple attempts at refactoring Preposter.us (the
software that runs the blog your reading now), but I’ve struggled with getting
it done. I’ve grafted-on a lot of bits to the [ original ~200 lines of code
](https://github.com/jjg/preposter.us/tree/v1.0.0) and while it’s messy, it’s
also reliable, which makes it hard to justify messing around with it.

  

However, Preposter.us was written in Python 2.x and upgrading it to 3.x is
overdue, so I’m taking a more serious run at getting it done this time. I’ve
also become a significantly better Python programmer since I first started the
project, and I’m leveraging these skills to make the next version easier to
work on.

  

I don’t have any major new features planned, just improving/finishing the
existing features without adding any new bugs. I also need to document some of
the less-obvious existing features (podcast support comes to mind) and sand-
off numerous rough edges that have accumulated over the years.

  

**New kind of computer**

This one needs a name. I’m staring an ambitious project to design and build a
new kind of personal computer. In spirit it has a lot in common with the first
generation of personal computers but the goal is to leverage the flexibility
of software to the extreme, and provide flexible, accessible hardware
customization/expansion when the limits of the software-defined components are
reached.

  

![](/assets/86-image1.jpeg)  

  

I have a lot more to say about this project in an upcoming post, but for now
I’ll enumerate some of the current design elements and leave the rest to your
imagination:

  

* Pocket-sized form-factor small enough for one-handed use 

* “Thumbwheel” pointing device and three physical “mouse” buttons 

* FPGA-oriented architecture (software-defined CPU, I/O, networking, etc.) 

* Modular expansion/customization “bus” with a simple SPI-based interface for additional sensors, radios, interfaces or whatever you can imagine 

* Free and open-source software down to the CPU, open-source hardware for the rest 

  

This will be a long-running project. It will encompass many ideas I’ve
accumulated over the last few decades that I think I’ll have the time and
inspiration to materialize over the next few years.

  

**Miscellaneous Hacking**

The rest of the month was filled by a handful of [ other little projects
](https://jasongullickson.com/blog/30-ebay-robot-vacuum.html) that I’ve [
posted about earlier ](https://jasongullickson.com/blog/how-i-use-my-25-radio-
as-a-police-scanner.html) this month, as well as activities that don’t really
fall into the “project” category (it is summertime after all...)

  

  

  

[ https://theneuromantics.net/@jjg ](https://theneuromantics.net/@jjg)

