---
title: 'Project Update June 2020'
date: '2020-06-09T23:23:16'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
Ahead of schedule this month (we could all use some good news right?).

  

**The Neuromantics**

This is my second attempt at running a [ Fediverse
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fediverse) node and my third attempt at
providing friends and accomplices with a cool place to hang-out online. This
time around I’m using a fairly turnkey Mastodon server in an attempt to
provide a better experience for people used to other social networks.

  

Given the major social networks refusal to hold certain people to the same
standards as others, and given the [ administrations
](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/executive-order-preventing-
online-censorship/) desire to force these platforms to enable bad behavior, I
wanted to provide an alternative. I’ve had such a positive experience on the
fediverse over the last year or so that I want to provide an “on-ramp” for
folks looking for something better.

  

If you’re interested in joining us, [ please, email
](https://jasongullickson.com/posts/please-email/) .

  

**AlphaBot**

Setting up a Mastodon node renewed my interest in building bots to inhabit the
system so I went looking to see what’s new in bot-building tools. The last
time I wrote a Twitter bot is was just a Python script using httplib to talk
directly to the API. This time I found a neat little framework for writing
Mastodon bots that handles some of the more tedious aspects of creating a bot
and turns the process into little more than writing a regular Python module.

  

To further simplify the process I’ve created [ AlphaBot
](https://github.com/jjg/alphabot) to serve as a “test harness” for all my
bot-writing experiments.

  

So far it’s been little more than a basic Markov-chain responder but it’s
enough to get the hang of the tooling so I can move on to focusing on the
aspects of the programming that are unique to the new bots I want to create.

  

**Freetrace**

The topic of electronic contact tracing is controversial, but what’s not
controversial is the potential value of electronic contact tracing for
limiting the spread of diseases like COVID-19. I spent a lot of time thinking
about how to receive the benefits of this technology in a way that minimized
or eliminates the privacy risks that come with the designs I’ve seen
elsewhere.

  

[ Freetrace ](https://github.com/jjg/freetrace) is my solution to this
problem.

  

In short, freetrace is a simple, stand-alone device that has no access to your
personal information, and as such cannot leak this information. It does not
communicate with any centralized servers or database and in fact has no
network connection at all.

  

I elaborate on the how and why this works in the [ documentation.com/
](https://github.com/jjg/freetrace) . I’m currently building a couple proof-
of-concept devices for use in developing the firmware and validating the
theory of operation.

  

![](/assets/75-image0.jpeg)  

  

I admit that I may be overlooking something that may impact the value or
utility of the device for disease control and invite input from anyone with
any expertise or experience in this area.

  

**Home Hive**

This is more Jamie’s project than it is mine, but I wanted to mention it
because after a very long search and several failed attempts we were finally
able to find a low-friction solution for creating an [ online shop
](https://gumroad.com/homehive) shop for Jamie’s work. The solution is
Gumroad, something I played with in its embryonic state but hadn’t revisited
again until a month or so ago. After spending 20 minutes experimenting it
looked like it might be what we’ve been looking for, so we spent a couple
hours one Saturday setting it up and listing a few items.

  

With a couple of weeks of experience using it and almost 75 items listed I’m
happy to say it has worked like a charm! In fact it’s been so nice to work
with I’m considering using it if I ever get to the point where I’ve made some
things I wouldn’t be embarrassed to sell as well.

  

**t5fyntmbta & aifss **

Finally recent events have reinvigorated my desire to work on a couple writing
projects that I’ve been slowly chipping-away at over the last few years. Last
month I mentioned [ How to Hack ](https://github.com/jjg/how-to-hack) , and
this month I’m adding two more titles back to the active project list: [
https://github.com/jjg/The Five Friends You Need to Make Before the Apocalypse
](https://github.com/jjg/t5fyntmbta) and [ Anarchy in Five Simple Steps
](https://github.com/jjg/fssta) .

  

  

That’s all for this month. Several of last month’s projects are still in-
flight but not enough had happened to warrant posting any updates yet.

  

Stay safe: wear a mask, practice social distancing and [ Film The Police
](https://www.copblock.org/FilmThePolice/) .

  

