---
title: "Raiden Mark III - greater RISC,  greater reward"
date: "2017-12-15"
---

<div class="content">
<h1 id="raiden-mark-iii-greater-risc-greater-reward">Raiden Mark III - greater RISC,  greater reward</h1>
<p>I selected ARM processors for Raiden Mark II for a number of reasons, but one of the most important ones was that I was under the impression that there was an open-source implementation of the ARM CPU and by selecting this as the foundation of Raiden, I could maximize flexibility (as well as control) in future iterations. As it turns out, that was not completely correct. There are indeed open-source ARM processors (which can be implemented in silicon or synthesized via FPGA, etc.) however the “modern” ARM CPU (including the ones I’m using in Raiden Mark II) are <em>proprietary</em>, and there is no real hope that these designs will become open in the future. This doesn’t change my immediate plans because a proprietary ARM processor still achieves the primary goals I have for Raiden Mark II, but it <em>does</em> impact plans I have for the next iteration of Raiden, Mark III. The good news is that as I was discovering that ARM isn’t going to provide everything I need, there is another RISC architecture that does, and it will be available as a component similar to the ARM SOC I’m using in Raiden II. This new architecture is <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RISC-V" target="_blank">RISC-V</a>, and it is a completely open design. RISC-V processors are currently available however they are aimed at the embedded market (think Arduino). That said, there is already <a href="https://github.com/riscv/riscv-linux" target="_blank">Linux kernel support</a> for RISC-V, and a <a href="https://www.sifive.com/products/risc-v-core-ip/u54-mc/" target="_blank">four-core system-on-a-chip</a> capable of running Linux is expected to ship in the first quarter of 2018. In addition to production chips realized in silicon, there are RISC-V cores available which can be <a href="https://github.com/SpinalHDL/VexRiscv" target="_blank">synthesized via FPGA</a>, and this is of particular interest to me because I have planned to make FPGA fabric a key component of Raiden Mark III since the beginning. It’s not clear to me yet whether a hybrid SOC+FPGA or pure FPGA RISC-V implementation is the right choice for Raiden Mark III, but what is clear is that going forward, the CPU architecture of choice for Raiden will be RISC-V.</p>
</div>
