---
title: 'RC2014 First Steps'
date: '2020-04-12T15:06:45'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
I’m building a computer from the chips-up (don’t get too excited, it’s a kit,
I didn’t design it).

  

![](/assets/70-image0.jpeg)  

  

When I met with the Cray engineer’s and learned that there’s no schematic for
the Cray 1, I tried studying “the Boolean” (in place of schematics the entire
machine is described in Boolean algebra) and it became apparent that I needed
a stepping-stone between my current level of experience and building a
computer from discrete logic gates.

  

![](/assets/70-image4.jpeg)  

  

So building a computer at the microprocessor-level of integration seemed like
a reasonable next step.

  

![](/assets/70-image1.jpeg)  

  

I’ve studied computers at this level for a long time and have a basic
understanding of how they work, but I’ve never actually _built_ one. I could
have started from scratch and designed a system around a microprocessor, but
I’d run across the RC2014 a few years back and it seemed simple enough to
provide the understanding I’m looking for without sending me down a year-long
rabbit hole of doing everything from scratch.

  

I also have a personal connection to machines like this, as the first
computers I ever touched were similar architecture. Grandpa built a SWTPC
6800, and dad had a Gimix Ghost (the first computer I ever programmed). The
RC2014 fits nicely into this class of machine and while I was too young to
turkey appreciate them at the time (favoring the integrated nature of my
VIC-20), I now see what building, customizing and programming a machine like
this can teach me.

  

![](/assets/70-image2.jpeg)  

  

In addition to assembling the kit, I plan on designed additional hardware
including a video adapter and a cassette tape interface. I’m studying Z80
assembly programming and plan on writing some sort of operating system for the
machine as well. I even have some more ambitious plans for a portable version,
but one step at a time.

  

![](/assets/70-image3.jpeg)  

  

Right now I’m enjoying the relaxing process of through-hole soldering and
learning in a visceral way how the abstract concepts of data/address/control
busses work, how the insides of a microprocessor talk to them and what happens
electrically on a cycle-by-cycle basis inside one of these machines.

