---
title: 'Some New Things'
date: '2020-09-07T09:14:38'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
﻿  My last post alluded to projects that I consider to be the new things as
distinct from the old things.

  

So what are these new things, exactly?

  

**Virtual Reality Operating System (VROS)**

  

Virtual reality isn’t anything new, but it has yet to live-up to the potential
we saw in it back in the late 1980’s. Back then we didn’t have the technology
for commodity VR, so we spent time dreaming up new applications and solving
the problems we could solve while the hardware caught-up with our
imaginations.

  

Now we have the hardware, but we seem to have lost almost everything else.
Contemporary VR is cobbled together with layer after layer of abstractions,
crippling the theoretical performance of the hardware. Worst yet is that most
applications are designed using video game development tools and as such have
inherited the video game industry model of separating the producer from the
consumer.

  

I began designing VROS as an operating system for VR hardware, specifically
cyberdecks. By treating the immersive interface as the primary system
interface, VROS requires new user interaction paradigms, new authoring tools
and new interfaces to existing systems. When I originally designed VROS it was
impossible to imagine the inexpensive computing, display and sensor technology
we have today, and the idea of a high-speed, always-on world-wide network
seemed impossible. Now all of this is not only possible, but can be had for a
couple hundred dollars.

  

Wo while the idea of VROS is 30 years old, it’s implementation was never
complete. Since contemporary VR doesn’t begin to scratch the surface of what
VROS was designed to do, I consider it one of the new things. It may be the
most ambitious project on this list, but it may also be the most
revolutionary, and it’s about time I got back to it.

  

  

**Rustcoin** *

  

This one was a collaborative conception (I’ll share the details on that once I
have permission to name names). The idea is simple: a cryptocurrency which
automatically redistributes coins from the wealthiest accounts to the poorest.

  

Why would anyone want this? Here’s a few reasons:

  

1\. Unlike any other currency I’m aware of, Rustcoin obeys the laws of nature
in that value is depleted over time. It’s hard to horde billions of avocados
for very long before nature takes its course and reduces their value

2\. Since the system discourages hording, transactions are encouraged,
resulting in an active exchange

3\. Everyone can participate as there is little advantage to “early adopters”
over newcomers

4\. As accumulation is discouraged by the system, prices should stay low,
providing inflation resistance

5\. For these reasons and more, Rustcoin should be uninteresting to
speculative buyers and other financial types who just like to gamble and have
no interest in the basic utility of an electronic currency

  

Implementation-wise there’s not a lot of new technology involved, other than
the redistribution algorithm and a proof-of-work mechanism that is focused on
doing useful work processing transactions as opposed to simply wasting
electricity.

  

_* I wanted to call this Marxcoin, but it turns out Marx wasn’t as big a fan
of automatic redistribution of wealth as I originally thought._

_  
_

  

**A privacy-respecting Internet of Things**

  

I have several projects in the works that could be called “IoT” devices, and
they share a common goal: provide as much utility as possible while minimizing
or eliminating any risk to the user’s privacy. A lot of this revolves around
keeping data local as long as possible and not depending on cloud or other
third-party services that are outside of the user’s control. As it turns out,
this isn’t as hard as it might seem if you rethink the entire system from the
perspective of protecting the user’s privacy.

  

So in addition to producing a selection of IoT devices that behave this way,
the output of these projects will include an open toolkit for building
additional devices as well. Since all of these devices will be built with this
toolkit, it will be tested under a diverse set of real-world conditions.

  

  

**More to come**

  

These projects are just a sample of the types of things I’m going to try and
focus on. Each project may itself spawn sub-projects and of course I have
notebooks packed with more ideas like these that fit squarely into the new
things category.

  

Perhaps even this list seems overly-ambitious, but winter is coming, and the
only material needed to pursue these efforts is time.

  

  

[ @jjg@theneuromantics.net ](https://theneuromantics.net/web/accounts/1)

