---
title: 'The $1000.00 Business'
date: '2021-05-04T08:24:19'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
_**Warning!** This is a thought experiment based on information that came
directly out of my head immediately after waking-up. There may be factual
errors (hell, there may be **mathematical** errors) so bear that in mind when
consuming or reacting to the words that follow. _

  

The other day I saw a meme which (among other things) claimed that for
$999.99  you could start a business instead of buying a new iPhone. While
thinking about how I’d rebut this claim I wondered about what kind of business
you could even start for $999 (let’s make it an even $1000.00).

  

Setting-aside the intended reductionism of the meme, I find the thought
experiment somewhat enticing: could I come up with a idea that, given $1000.00
in “seed money”, could actually be cultivated into a self-sustaining business?

  

I’ve never thought about designing a business this way. I’ve always started
with the idea for a product or service and thought about what potential it has
to capture an audience and generate enough revenue to sustain a business.
Looking at it from this other direction, making an idea that fits within a
fixed investment is something new. Maybe this is how real businesspeople think
but it’s completely foreign to me.

  

To be clear I don’t believe that this is possible if you account for all of
the hidden but real costs of such an endeavor (for example, I’ve already spent
at least $250 worth of time at my standard rate just thinking about this and
writing this blog post). But if we treat those as say “hobby expenses” and
forego paying the founder fair market value for their time out of this initial
$1000.00, that gives us _something_ to play with.

  

**$1000.00**

Off the top we need to pay some fixed costs to make the company legal. I’m
sure there is a wide range for this depending on where the company is formed
but I looked into it in Wisconsin and I think it’s fair to estimate that these
will cost around $250.00. That leaves us with $750.00 going into the next
step.

  

**$750.00**

There are other initial costs that most businesses incur to take off the top
before we talk about doing any actual work. Things like business cards,
setting up a website, communications (email/telephone/p.o. box/etc.) that may
be avoided, but minimally you need a way for someone to purchase whatever
you’re selling and I think the cheapest way to do this is online.

  

The cheapest and simplest option I’m aware of for selling things online is
PayPal, and using PayPal centers around email, so minimally you’ll need an
email address for the business and if you don’t want to seem completely
sketchy the email address should really be tied to the company name. There are
a million companies who provide basic web hosting and email so I think it’s
safe to say this could be had for around $15 a month, and most start-up
business plans I’ve seen lay out a “runway” of at least one year, so I’m going
to put a price of $200 on this part of the business.

  

**$550.00**

Now we have a place to sell something (website) and a way to communicate with
customers (email) and a period of time in which to start making money before
our initial investment runs out (1 year). With these parameters we can
calculate how much we can spend creating products per month before going out
of business: $45.83.

  

This is a pretty tight budget for creating any kind of physical goods. Not
only are there material costs, but those costs done go down much as you
increase the number of items produced (especially at this scale). Non-physical
goods (art, software, etc.) which can be reproduced by electronic means have
the advantage of zero or near-zero cost to produce copies of, and the
additional benefit of near-zero delivery costs.

  

Clearly a product or service that can be produced and delivered electronically
should be easier to make a profit off of, but there are downsides as well.
It’s also much easier for others to reproduce an electronic product, and
hiring a lawyer to fight something like that is likely to reduce your runway
from one year to a couple hours. Or maybe you just don’t want to produce
something electronic, in which case you just need to come up with a physical
product you can produce and distribute enough of to turn a profit for under
$550.00.

  

In either case you’ll probably need to spend some time assembling the product
before it’s ready to be sold, and while there’s endless ways to slice-up that
$550.00 to account for this time we’ll make it easy and keep the expenditure
during this time to an evenly-divided $45 per month. For a non-physical
product this buys about 3 hours of your time at a subsistence wage which is
in-line with treating the project like a hobby.

  

Finally you need some way to find an audience for these products you’ve been
producing. This is another problem with a million solutions and most of them
cost money. Given that your time is probably the least expensive thing we can
purchase, spending that on establishing a social media presence is probably
the most cost-effective means of marketing/advertising/etc. you can do at this
stage. There is probably a network best suited to connect with the audience
for your product so determining that and spending most of your time there is
recommended, but establishing basic presences and means of contact on all the
major networks is probably worthwhile as well.

  

**$ 415  **

With only a handful of hours paid for each month (and assuming you have
another job that actually pays the bills for now) I think it’s reasonable to
expect to spend at least three months on the work outlined above. This leaves
about 9 months and $415 to keep the lights on until you sell enough product to
become profitable.

  

During this time there will be some decisions to make. If you are able to sell
enough product to cover the next months expenses you could keep going after
the first year, but you’ll have to decide if it’s worth it. If your intention
is to make a living with this business (which I believe is the most basic
definition of a sustainable business) you’ll need profits high enough to cover
your cost of living in addition to just the cost of producing products. You’ll
also need to consider other costs as this business outgrows being treated like
a hobby including annual business registration costs, insurance, etc. Many
businesses aim for and expect constant growth; I don’t think this is a
valuable goal but growing large enough to sustain a healthy livelihood for
yourself and your employees should be considered a requirement for any
legitimate business.

  

**Maybe?**

What do I actually know about business? Probably not much. I have no training
and really no interest in it other than as a means to an end in a culture that
only values my work when it can be turned into money.

  

If I have any business knowledge it comes from spending a lot of time with a
lot of different companies ranging from tiny start-ups to global enterprises.
I’ve seen businesses of all sizes boom and I’ve seen them fail spectacularly,
but more often they lumber along eternally as either “too big to fail” or
“zombie start-ups”.

  

My favorite companies (as either consumer or producer) have been companies
that exist deliberately, not just to survive.

  

I guess that’s true about most things I like.

  

