---
title: 'What makes VROS unique?'
date: '2020-10-18T10:17:42'
author: mr
draft: false
tags:
  - preposterous
---
When I first used the term [ VROS ](https://github.com/jjg/vros) ( [ Virtual
Reality ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_reality) [ Operating System
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Operating_system) ) back in the early 1990's
anything involving virtual reality was novel. More than two decades have
passed, the term "VR" has become mainstream and the equipment is accessible to
almost anyone. So what makes VROS remain unique?

![](/assets/95-vr_disk.jpg)

_The first of my Virtual Reality experiments began around 1988_

VROS is a computing system designed from the ground-up to provide an immersive
computing environment. Originally intended as an alternative operating system
for [ i386 ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_80386) PC's, the purpose is
to provide a general-purpose personal computer with a virtual reality
interface. In 1990 I never could have imagined the diversity and accessibility
of computing hardware we now have today, and my designs for VROS have evolved
accordingly.

![](/assets/95-hmd.jpg)

_A $150[ smartphone ](https://www.pine64.org/pinephone/) and a $15 HMD case
today is at least 10x better than $1M of VR hardware in 1990 _

The personal computer part is important, because VROS is not only a means of
interacting with environments built by other people, but more importantly to
provide the user with the tools to build their own virtual environments and
immersive applications.

This is the key difference between VROS and the virtual reality systems I'm
aware of today. The primary goal is to put the power of this technology into
the widest range of hands possible to cultivate the development of
applications that have yet to be imagined.

Like the hackers in basements who built the first personal computers out of [
calculator chips ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Intel_8008) , I can't imagine
the things that others will do with what I'm building. I want to use what I
know to build something that can be used by someone without my abilities in a
way that lets them express their creativity and imagination without having to
first follow the same path I did. This is the power of _personal_ computing,
and it's what created the applications that powered the first personal
computer revolution.

It's also the same pattern that allowed the [ world-wide web
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/World_Wide_Web#History) to be used in a second
revolution of computer and communications applications, and it's the same
pattern that used [ Arduino ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arduino#History)
and then [ Raspberry Pi ](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi) to
launch a revolution in embedded computing and smart devices. I think it's the
best way to discover new uses for computing technology by utilizing the
creativity of people beyond the specialties of computer science and
engineering.

I believe that something like VROS could spark a similar revolution by
empowering everyone, not just programmers like me, to create new, exciting,
and wide-ranging applications for immersive technology.

  

  

[ @jjg@theneuromantics.net ](https://theneuromantics.net/web/accounts/1)

